# Momentum-Trading-Strategy-using-Moving-Average

#### The goal for this project is to create a Momentum Trading Strategy using Moving Averages which can beat the market. 
#### Beating the Market: The goal of many trading strategies is to achieve higher returns than the market average over the same period. In this context, "beating/outperforming the market" means generating a higher return with our strategy than what we would have earned with a simple buy and hold approach.
#### To get started we will pull price data from Yahoo Finance using Pandas DataReader. I am going to choose Tesla (TSLA) as my stock.
### Choosing the Strategy's Time Frame:
#### The first step when setting up a momentum trading strategy is deciding on the time frame. I pulled the price data for the last 150 days of trading for Tesla. In order to get the last 150 days consistently I am going to use date.today()and timedelta. Using timedelta, the start date will be 150 days in the past from the current date. This will collect data for approximately the previous 103 trading days when accounting for weekends and holidays. NOTE: Back-testing, previous trading and industry knowledge will be the best indicators for the length of time frame you should choose.
#### Next, I am going to calculate the 30 day moving averages for price and volume. The moving averages will give us metrics to compare the current price and volume of a stock during the most recent trading session. From there we can begin to implement our momentum trading strategy. Our first objective is to find buy indicators, where the price consistently rises after a criteria is met.
### Trading Assumptions:
#### We will buy the stock when the price is higher than the moving average and the volume is higher than the moving average. The hypothesis is that when the price and volume is rising then the momentum is bullish with a strong trend hence the price will rise. We will sell the stock when the price hits below the moving average and the volume is still higher than the moving average. The hypothesis is that when the price hits below the moving average and the volume is still high then the momentum is bearish with a strong trend hence our speculation says that the price will decline.
### Backtesting our Momentum Trading Strategy
#### Before we implement our strategy, testing it to see if it works will let us know if we should implement it or not. To do so, we can iterate through each row in our DataFrame to find the our buy and sell dates and calculate the return. My objective is to outperform the market. Thus, if our strategy returns more than buying and holding for the same time period, we will know we if the strategy is viable moving forward.
### Results:
#### Each trade using our strategy will be displayed and the total return using the strategy will be updated. Once all the dates have been analyzed, the total return for holding the stock from start to end will then be displayed in dollars and percent return. This will provide an easy comparison between our momentum trading strategy and holding for the length of our timeframe.
#### Following the Tesla example and assuming we are trading a single share at a time, the strategy returned 1.71% or $3.68 over our time period. If you were to have bought Tesla on November 17th, our start date, and held you would have lost 5.87% or 12.61 dollars a share.
### Conclusion:
#### The momentum trading strategy worked in this example. Just because this one worked for Tesla does not mean it will work for other stocks. Adjusting, tweaking and testing new assumptions for different sectors, markets and equities could prove to be more effective. In addition, adding more parameters, changing the moving averages and much more can be changed!

